We are happy to announce version 1.0 of the Alice programming
system:

     http://www.ps.uni-sb.de/alice/

Alice ML is a functional programming language that enriches the
statically typed, closed functional world of ML with extensive
support for type-safe programming of concurrent, distributed
and open systems. It also features cutting-edge constraint
programming technology in the tradition of Oz/Mozart.

Alice ML is a mostly conservative extension of Standard ML
featuring:

  Futures
     selective laziness and light-weight concurrency with
     implicit dataflow synchronisation
  Higher-order modules
     higher-order functors and abstract signatures
  Packages
     dynamically typed ML modules as first-class values
  Pickling
     type-safe, generic & platform-independent marshalling,
     including code, types and full modules
  Components
     type-safe lazy dynamic linking across the Internet
  Distribution
     type-safe remote functions and network mobility
  Constraints
     constraint propagation and programmable search for
     solving hard combinatorical problems
  Virtual Machine
     portable implementation with support for just-in-time
     compilation
  Interactive tools
     graphical browsers for data structures and search spaces

The highlights of this release are:

  SEAM Virtual Machine
     A newly designed VM with support for just-in-time compilation
     improves execution speed by a factor of up to 5 compared to
     previous versions. Mozart is no longer required to run Alice.
     [www.ps.uni-sb.de/seam/]
  GECODE Constraint Library
     Constraints are now based on Gecode, an up-coming, cutting-edge
     constraint library that is more than 10 times faster than the
     previous implementation and features a significant number of
     new, state-of-the-art constraints. [www.gecode.org]
  Graphical Tools
     Inspector and Explorer have been reimplemented, providing
     more functionality and better looks.
  Component Model Overhaul
     The component system has been cleaned up and is now more
     flexible. Components are fully dynamic.
  Standard Library
     Now contains all mandatory modules of the Standard ML Basis.
     [www.standardml.org/Basis]

For a detailed list of changes see:

     http://www.ps.uni-sb.de/alice/download/CHANGES

Alice is open source under a BSD-style license. Binary packages
are currently available for Linux and Windows.

Enjoy,

        - The Alice Team
