We are happy to announce version 1.1 of the Alice programming
system:

     http://www.ps.uni-sb.de/alice/

Alice ML is a functional programming language that enriches the
statically typed, closed functional world of ML with extensive
support for type-safe programming of concurrent, distributed
and open systems. It also features cutting-edge constraint
programming technology in the tradition of Oz/Mozart.

Alice ML is a mostly conservative extension of Standard ML
featuring:

  Futures
     selective laziness and light-weight concurrency with
     implicit dataflow synchronisation
  Higher-order modules
     higher-order functors and abstract signatures
  Packages
     dynamically typed ML modules as first-class values
  Pickling
     type-safe, generic & platform-independent marshalling,
     including code, types and full modules
  Components
     type-safe lazy dynamic linking across the Internet
  Distribution
     type-safe remote functions and network mobility
  Constraints
     constraint propagation and programmable search for
     solving hard combinatorical problems
  Virtual Machine
     portable implementation with support for just-in-time
     compilation
  Interactive tools
     graphical browsers for data structures and search spaces

The highlights of this release are:

  Graphical User Interface
     The Interactive Toplevel now comes with an optional GUI that
     includes a simple program editor.
  First-class Compilation
     The library now enables safe runtime access to the compiler,
     including a type-safe Lisp-style "eval" function.
  Search Factory and Distributed Search
     A generic Search Factory enables programming of custom search
     strategies for constraint programming, and includes a distributed
     search engine.
  Glade Interface Builder
     The new aliceglade tool allows creation of Gtk interfaces for
     Alice with the graphical Glade interface builder. [glade.gnome.org]
  SQL Library
     A binding to the SQLite library is now included in the
     distribution. [www.sqlite.org]
  XML Parser
     The distribution also includes a simple XML parser based on the
     libxml2 library. [www.xmlsoft.org]
  Mac OS Port
     The system is now available for Mac OS X (without just-in-time
     compilation).
  Bug Fixes
     Lots of bugs and problems fixed, particularly on Windows.

For a detailed list of changes please see:

     http://www.ps.uni-sb.de/alice/download/CHANGES

Alice is open source under a BSD-style license. Source and binary
packages are currently available for Linux, Mac OS, and Windows.

Enjoy,

        - The Alice Team
