With the next millenium in sight, what is an appropriate label
for the next step in the evolution of Mozart technology? Here
is a concrete proposal.

The name should indicate a step forward. So Vivaldi is out.
Amadeus is still retro. We don't want to become too mainstream,
so Back Street Boys isn't a suitable name either. In contrast,
Stockhausen is a modern composer and choosing his name not only
implies a step into the next century but being real
avant-garde. His music is puristic but demanding -- so will be
our syntax. And the word has the right bit of Teutonic touch
that we might want to bring across.

Following the M-Oz-art analogy, the language itself can then be
called Aus. English speakers will adapt to this easily, as it
is pronounced almost like Oz. Moreover, Aus fits well into the
famous OhneZukunft tradition: Oz war ohne Zukunft, was folgte,
war das Aus. An alternative would be Ock, which has a look very
similar to Oz.

The compiler is invoked as stoc (which also has a valid
interpretation as Statically Typed Oz Compiler).

The emulator is the Stockwerker (hard at work), implementing
the Stockwerk VM (the level below). The emulator can be invoked
as stow (Eat my code!). Creating the symphony of a complete
application is the job of the module/component manager: the Komponist.
Stot invokes the interactive toplevel where you input your program piece
by piece. And if you are a Depp not smart enough to work out the
interdependences in your Stockhausen sources yourself you can invoke
the stodep tool to extract them automatically.

The several browsers will be called Hausers:
* the Inspector:    Data Hauser (for easier house-keeping of your data)
* the Explorer:     Space Hauser (exploring multiple universes)
* the Investigator: Kaspar Hauser (this guy surely was constrained)

The other tools:
* the debugger: Stocker (your program will balk on every breakpoint)
* the profiler: Stochist (getting pedantic about statistics)
* yacc and lex: Jacke and Hose (the emperor's new clothes)

And we want a foreign function interface -- the Stock Exchange.

As for versions, each major version will be an opus. Increasements
in minor versions are varations. So version 1.2 is Stockhausen Opus 1
Variation 2. The prototypes are small operettes.

We want the reader to compare this nice, consistent, and
extensible naming scheme to the other current proposal,
Amadeus. If the system is Amadeus then it only contains a Made
(maggot). Or it's Mad, if you want. Also, what would the
successor to Amadeus be? Anybody suggesting Wolfgang? This
makes us the Wolf Gang -- we do not find this perspective too
convincing. Moreover, using latinized words is out, so it
should at least be Gottlieb.

We hope you all recognise the metaphorical richness and
elegance in our proposal. Let's get post-modern!


	- Andreas, Gerhard, Katrin, Leif, Tobias


PS: SICS may derive their own system and call it Stockholm.
